DLM Frozen Tier Docs (#147814)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/data-stream-lifecycle-settings.md

$$$cluster-lifecycle-default-rollover$$$

`cluster.lifecycle.default.rollover`
:   ([Dynamic](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#dynamic-cluster-setting), string) This property accepts a key value pair formatted string and configures the conditions that would trigger a data stream to [rollover](docs-content://manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/rollover.md) when it has `lifecycle` configured. This property is an implementation detail and subject to change. Currently, it defaults to `max_age=auto,max_primary_shard_size=50gb,min_docs=1,max_primary_shard_docs=200000000`, this means that your data stream will rollover if any of the following conditions are met:

    * Either any primary shard reaches the size of 50GB,
    * or any primary shard contains 200,000,000 documents
    * or the index reaches a certain age which depends on the retention time of your data stream,
    * **and** has at least one document.

$$$data-streams-lifecycle-target-merge-factor$$$

`data_streams.lifecycle.target.merge.policy.merge_factor`

> :   ([Dynamic](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#dynamic-cluster-setting), integer) Data stream lifecycle implements [tail merging](docs-content://manage-data/lifecycle/data-stream.md#data-streams-lifecycle-how-it-works) by updating the Lucene merge policy factor for the target backing index. The merge factor is both the number of segments that should be merged together, and the maximum number of segments that we expect to find on a given tier. This setting controls which value [Data stream lifecycle](docs-content://manage-data/lifecycle/data-stream.md) configures on the target index. It defaults to `16`. The value will be visible under the `index.merge.policy.merge_factor` index setting on the target index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   ([Dynamic](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#dynamic-cluster-setting), integer) Data stream lifecycle implements [tail merging](docs-content://manage-data/lifecycle/data-stream.md#data-streams-lifecycle-how-it-works) by updating the Lucene merge policy factor for the target backing index. The merge factor is both the number of segments that should be merged together, and the maximum number of segments that we expect to find on a given tier. This setting controls which value [data stream lifecycle](docs-content://manage-data/lifecycle/data-stream.md) configures on the target index. It defaults to `16`. The value will be visible under the `index.merge.policy.merge_factor` index setting on the target index.
```

## Frozen tier transition settings [_frozen_tier_transition_settings]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.5
```

The following settings control the behavior of the frozen tier transition, which automatically converts data stream backing indices to [searchable snapshots](docs-content://deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore/searchable-snapshots.md) on the frozen tier. Note that the conversions happen on the currently elected master node.

$$$dlm-frozen-transition-poll-interval$$$

`dlm.frozen_transition.poll_interval`
:   ([Static](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#static-cluster-setting), [time unit value](/reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/api-conventions.md#time-units)) How often the master node checks for data stream backing indices that are ready to be converted to the frozen tier. Must be at least `1m`. Defaults to `5m`.

$$$dlm-frozen-transition-max-concurrency$$$

`dlm.frozen.transition.thread_pool.size`

> :   ([Static](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#static-cluster-setting), integer) The maximum number of backing indices that the frozen transition service converts concurrently. Defaults to the smaller of either 2x the CPU core count of the node or `100`.

Reviewer: We generally spell out numbers zero through nine per https://brand.elastic.co/302f66895/p/194a3b-writing-style-guide/b/3874e3
```suggestion
:   ([Static](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#static-cluster-setting), integer) The maximum number of backing indices that the frozen transition service converts concurrently. Defaults to the smaller of either two times the CPU core count of the node or `100`.
```

$$$dlm-frozen-transition-max-queue-size$$$

`dlm.frozen.transition.thread_pool.queue_size`

> :   ([Static](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#static-cluster-setting), integer) The maximum number of backing indices that can be queued for frozen conversion at any given time. Indices submitted beyond this limit are skipped until the next poll cycle. Defaults to the smaller of either 20x the CPU core count of the node or `1000`.

Reviewer: I think "times" is clearer than "x"
```suggestion
:   ([Static](docs-content://deploy-manage/stack-settings.md#static-cluster-setting), integer) The maximum number of backing indices that can be queued for frozen conversion at any given time. Indices submitted beyond this limit are skipped until the next poll cycle. Defaults to the smaller of either 20 times the CPU core count of the node or `1000`.
```
